watch the image on your screen closely
we've got a quick question for you about
these two squares true or false this top
one here is a darker gray than the
bottom one pretty obvious right
well maybe not because the answer is
actually false believe it or not they
are exactly the same color still don't
believe these two squares are the same
shade of gray
this man experimental neuroscientist
beau lotto is going to show you why your
brain is constantly being fooled by what
it sees what illusions tell us is that
what we're trying to see is not the
world as it is but something else
we're actually generating perceptions of
a world that's useful to see and that
useful perception doesn't actually have
to correspond with what's actually there
all right well look at this cube here
what if I told you that those two
surfaces are exactly the same would you
believe me I would okay come on up okay
bow has attached a grace swatch to one
of the surfaces to allow you can the
volunteers to test this one out for
yourselves take that dog and move that
nice of you are you also having trouble
believing this one well we'll take a
look at the illusion again if you want
try holding up one of your hands and
block this section of the image
if you're having trouble seeing it we'll
help you out
crazy right
different same it's freaking me out
what's going on tell us are we changing
the surface what's changing our
perception our perceptions change okay
why that's the question if we could
understand this we would understand how
the brain works
your brains using its past experience to
generate his perceptions of the world
and so the brain looks at this image and
it says ah this surface is in shadow
okay if this surface were action in
shadow and returning the same amount of
light to your eye as this surface which
seems to be in light this would actually
have to be more reflective there's less
light hitting it but the same amount is
hitting our eyes this one right and so
that's why you see it as lighter was
that confusing let's simplify this bo is
saying the gradients and shadows he's
painted here give your brain clues that
the top is a well lit gray surface and
the bottom is a poorly lit white surface
clues your brain trusts because of your
past experience with shadows